Okay. Where will local school board members
receive the training that is required by the State
Board of Education?
I don't know. I
don't have any plans as
to how that will occur. That will have to be built in
to the state's plans, like how to implement that
piece of legislation. How that will be designed
and I
had
no
idea as to how this would happen at all. I imagine
that it will vary from one district to another and
it will cost the
money. I don't know the exact amount that's been
appropriated
for them. Have they started this training yet? Uh,
see I don't have any access to the information
about what I have. I had my friends come in and give
me some information. except
for those that we had been specifically studying
at Texas A&M. We did a study on the way the career
ladder was being implemented, the way
performance appraisal was being implemented,
and we've taken a look at what people think about an
entrepreneurship equation and advanced
academic training. Some
of us have
been participating in a group called Epsom's
Equality Education. But if you want an oral
history of the committee, this question of how the
recommendation is being implemented, in our
features, they're not really linked to the
committee. That's only one .
OK. Why is a master teacher exam required in order
for teachers to be assigned to level four on the
career lab? Let me raise a question about what
you're trying
to get at. Ask me why. an exam is required presumes a
number of things. It presumes, I think it's a good
idea, which I don't, it presumes that all the
members of the committee voted for all the
recommendations, which they didn't. There were
many votes. There were 14 to 6. There were many
different items that were voted. And a
number of those were six people who voted against
the recommendation. So I can't tell you why. The
reason, the reason why is because the law, the
legislation, asked the legislation to require
it. That's why it's going to be done. Now whether I
think it's a good idea or not, I'd be happy to
comment on it, right? I
don't think it's a very good idea. I think there are
other ways to determine whether teachers are
competent, besides doing a certain basic skill.
You know, 20 years after they graduate, and
they've done a very good amount of work, and many of
them are very good teachers. You know, it's a waste
of money, financially, to presume that all
210,000 teachers are
not competent to teach. You've
got to give them this basic skillset plan. It's
going to cost $14 million to test these teachers,
many of whom already have master's degrees and
have already taken many courses in which they've
demonstrated that they can spell and read and
write. Many of them have taken the graduate record
at the time at the universities that they
attended. Those teachers
don't need to be tested anymore. And it's a slap in
the face to a teacher who has a certificate. If you
say, you know, we're going to give you this one
test, and if you don't pass it, even if you freeze on
it, which is much better for some teachers,
because so much will be riding on it, if you don't
take your You don't do that with lawyers or doctors
or anybody else. Another example of how the
society mistreats its people. And I didn't vote
for that, I didn't do it. In fact, I called the
president of the Educational Testing Service and
asked him to And he told me
over the phone, and I reiterated
it to
the committee,
That's what he said, that Abram would not allow
that test to be used by anybody who flew to keep it in
the mainland, because the test was not a test of
Goblin, it was a test of Goblin. And if the test was
used in that way, it would be bad for the testing
company, because it would not be creditable. They
would not be using the test for what it was
intended. And they refused to let Houston use it,
and they would not allow
the state of
Arkansas to use their test. Furthermore, he said
that if any teacher was excluded using their test,
they would appear as a witness in court for the
teacher, not for the school district. So I played,
I told all the members of the committee, what the
president of the largest test and test
corporation in the United States has said about
testing teachers. And they've only four, three,
or six to do it anyway. And the reasoning behind
that has a lot more to do with politics. The
politicians feel they need something to
demonstrate to the public that they're going to
find out whether their tax increase is worth it. In
other words, whether it improves the quality of
the school. If you put more money in to keep the
salary, what do you get for it? And the fastest
thing they go to to demonstrate quality is a test.
And toughness. Get tough, get test. Well,
improving quality of life is more complicated
than just being tough. And if people go to school
and threaten you, it benefits a lot to do with
making things better rather than making things
tough. Just requiring more of something doesn't
make it better. Unless you change the interaction
between the teacher, the student, and the
curriculum, you really haven't accomplished the
whole lot. You've got to get really good teachers.
And you don't get good teachers just by giving
them, like, uh, cuts on paper cuts. You get good
teachers by using that $14 million to set up
intensive training programs. You can find out
whether a teacher can teach their subject to the
students by going into their class. And in the
performance appraisal instrument that states
with and with and none, that's number nine in the
list of competencies that they require teachers
to demonstrate. So they have a method for
determining whether the teacher knows enough
about their
subject to teach it to students. OK. This master
teacher exam, do you know if it has been created
yet, or?
It all depends on which exam you're talking about.
There will be, as a result of this legislation, 97
new tests. Some of these are for students, some are
for teachers. The tests for teachers started way
back before Hospital 72. There was a bill called
Senate Bill 50 approved in the previous
legislative session that required an
examination For teachers, prior to entry, you
need to be familiar with the pre-professionals
and skills test, it's called. You have to take that
prior to getting into teacher education. And
that's a test of math and English. Then the next
test is an exit exam. And that's after the person
completes the fourth year, prior to entry into the
profession. Then there's a test. It's going to be
given a one-shot test that will be given in March to
all the current teachers. And that test is a basic
skills test. There's another test for teachers in
the career ladder plan between levels two and
three, which is called an advanced test. Nobody
knows what that means yet. In fact, nobody knows
what levels three and four mean. They haven't been
worked out yet. That's one of the things that got
all of the experienced teachers very angry in
Texas because all of the experienced teachers
were put on level one. And then a decision was made
in each of the districts because there was money
provided over and above the regular base salary by
the state. There was an advanced amount of money
given to each district for merit. and they had to
set up a system of performance or presence to
determine which teachers received merit. But
here were these teachers who'd been teaching for
20 years, and they all were now replaced on the
first level with all the beginning teachers.
Okay.
Do you think sometime in the future that
first-year teachers will eventually have to have
a master's degree to begin teaching as opposed to a
bachelor's degree? I hope so. There is a lot of
activity right now in the profession moving that
direction. Florida has this requirement,
five-year programs. North Carolina
is moving in that direction, Oklahoma. And within
the professional organizations, there's a new
group called the Homes Group, 29 institutions,
mostly land grant, research-oriented type
universities. and the large private
institutions, like Stanford, Columbia, New York
University, Harvard, are members of this group of
29. In fact, they're just two weeks from expanding
it to 35. Their commitment is to develop five-year
programs and also to study them, to do research on
teacher education. In addition to that, they have
as a goal to set up a set of standards which they will
apply to themselves.
Now, there are something like 1,340
institutions in the United States . And this group
is saying, look, to try to get all 1,340
of these institutions that meet these standards
is impossible. Those outstanding universities
that are already research-oriented
universities, committed to quality and
committed to research, ought to be doing this kind
of thing. They ought to be setting up models of the
best way to prepare teachers. And of course, this
is all going to be done in a kind of context of a
teacher shortage. So the conflict becomes, well,
while you're developing these great program
five-year models, there's going to be a shortage
of teachers. Are you going to meet the demands or
numbers and still move in this quality domain? The
last meeting in Texas A&M is one of these 35 groups
working with a home school. In fact, I have a
meeting. November 11, in Washington, deal with
the deans of education. I'm meeting with the
presidents and vice presidents of their
institutions at the national meeting of the land
grant universities to discuss how to work on this
whole area as a university-wide activity, rather
than just have colleges of education involved.
But the answer I'm hoping we give to that is, look,
If we can develop high quality programs in teacher
education, in the end, that will produce more
teachers rather than less. Now, A&M is a good
example of this. We have increased our teacher
education enrollment over the last four years by
34%. We have higher requirements, grade point
average requirements, and testing requirements
to get into the College of Education than other
colleges on the campus. It doesn't hurt us at all.
It helps us. We have a math science scholar loan
program now. We have nine National Merit
Scholars, eight valedictorians. We've got 30
students on scholarships. All of this has been
stimulated by commitment to quality. And I think,
in a long run, we drive students away by law and
standards. I think the school drives teachers
away by setting up emergency permit programs or
alternative certification programs where
people get in without meeting the strict
requirements of performance, demonstrated
competence, and having completed a good subject
field preparation and a good student teaching
preparation. I think we destroy our recruitment
approach when we lower standards. not when we
increase them. And so I'm hoping that the land
grant institutions can hold out on this and say,
look, we believe it's important to prepare a group
of people, teachers and professional leaders,
and also show how it should be done and do research
on it at the same time. And I think that group could
have a major impact on the other 1,300
institutions that exist. And some of those should
go out of the business. They shouldn't be trying to
prepare teachers, because in some cases, there's
a half a faculty member trying to teach the whole
science
group. How do you feel about all teachers and
administrators having to take the competency
exam in March 1986? I don't think it's a good method
for determining teacher competence. And it's not
done in any other profession. And I think it's a
slap in the face to the teachers and to the training
institutions that prepared those people.
They're going to be giving that test to people who
have master's degrees from some of the best
institutions in the state. In order to get into
this institution, you have to have higher
requirements than are going to be required on this
test. Why do you have to spend $14 million to give
210,000 teachers a test as a political
activity. It's a total misuse of funds. And there
are other methods for determining what they want
to determine. But the emphasis on testing today
suggests, and when they give the test, what are
they going to have? It's not going to be a test of
teacher
confidence. I think it's a waste of time. Okay. Is
this a one-time competency test that must be
passed as a condition for further informant, or
can it be retaken if failed? They're saying it can
be retaken, but it's a one-time test. They won't
give this every year because the people who will be
coming in after this year to the profession will
all have taken the pre-proficiency skills test to
get into teacher education in the first place and
the exit exam in the subject field. But those make
sense because when you test a person on the
pre-proficiency field, they're testing them on
the first two years of college in terms of what
they've studied in math and English. So it has a
reference. The exit exam is on what they've been
studying for four years in the subject field,
which they're going to teach. and the
professional education that they've been
studying. The test is related to a curriculum,
which is totally different than just pulling a
test out of the air and giving it to teachers after
20 years of teaching without reference to
anything that they've recently studied. What is
your opinion about the PPST exam? English
proficiency exam before the state even
recommended the pre-proficiency skills test.
It's one set of evidence that we use in making the
judgment of entrance. I feel grade point average
is just as significant recommendations from the
people who've been the teachers of the students.
Observation of their work in the school and
hearing that people a chance themselves early in
their program to go out and work with teachers and
students in the schools to see if they really want
to be a teacher. Those are the kinds of things, in
addition to the PPST that we do and that I think are
essential in making judgments about at the point
of matriculation before a person comes in to
teacher education. In most cases, people who
don't want to be teachers learn that through those
first two years And most of them weed themselves
out. They decide not
to become teachers. It's a certain amount of
self-serving. What is your opinion about the exit
exam that students preparing to be educators must
take upon graduation from college? My preference
would be that the institutions design the test in
relationship to the particular curriculum that
the institution has developed to prepare the
teachers. There's a great deal of similarity in
some areas, but also an institution like ours,
where we're moving toward five-year programs in
some areas, and we're moving toward
endorsements. In addition to being an elementary
teacher or a secondary teacher, here at A&M, you
can pick bilingual education, reading, special
education. I would like to have them let us design
our own tests, which they could then review to make
sure they met their standards. And then they come
in to review teams and give us program approval
based on their evaluation of what we're doing. But
I would leave it up to the institutions to design
the test in relationship to the curriculum that
they're teaching based on state standards.
The professional standards allow the
institution, the economy, to go beyond the
minimums in developing our programs. And I would,
in fact, hope the state would provide incentives
for going beyond the minimums, rather than always
being so concerned about whether we've met the
minimum and then forgetting everything else.
What is your opinion about students having to pass
all academic courses with at least a grade of 70 in
order to participate in extracurricular
activities? I believe that to relate
extracurricular activities to the rest of the
curriculum and use it as a device, I believe the
value of extracurricular activities can stand in
their own without them being used to have a student
hostage to do better than I was subject to. I think
you can make a case for the educational value of
so-called extracurricular activities. For
instance, when a student gets the experience of
being managing editor of a school newspaper, or is
organizing the school play, or is participating
in the debate team, In my estimation, the values
that come from the learnings that come from those
kind of activities are as valuable in many cases as
students learning in the regular class. So I don't
think you use one to force the other. I think there
are other ways. The answer to improving people's
performance in the academic classes is to make the
curriculum as exciting as the extracurricular
activities are, and not use the extracurricular
activities
as a threat. What's been missing in the dialogue
are the three other areas of extracurricular
activities that the committee was very concerned
about, and I agree we ought to move on those. that
there was an imbalance in the amount of money being
spent for football and sports, not the other
extracurricular activities. I think some of the
other extracurricular activities get
shortchanged because of the emphasis on
interscholastic sports. I believe that
interscholastic sports need to be de-emphasized
and the other extracurricular activities
emphasized more than they are, such as with the
music programs and the art programs at school, the
cultural programs that schools should have on
valuable kinds of experiences that are lacking
because of the imbalance in the way that money is
spent. Secondly, the issue of the pull-outs that I
strongly believe in what the committee
recommended, that you ought to have the academic
programs in the course of the day. And those ought
to be saved for math, science, English, social
science, and so forth. And you shouldn't be
pulling students out to go to band or to debating.
But you shouldn't eliminate debating or band.
They should have those in another portion of the
day. And that's a problem of scheduling. It isn't a
problem of doing away with one or the other. And so I
strongly believe in the committee's
recommendation. And that was the committee's
recommendation. It was not to do away with
extroversion. Now the third area was the
imbalance in the way sports, especially, was
affecting the academic quality of the faculty.
The whole idea of hiring people to be coaches and
then asking the question, what can they teach, is
the wrong sequence. That's an imbalance in terms
of priorities. They should be asking, if there's
an American history position open in the school,
and you need American history, you ought to go out
and find the best American history scholar who
likes to work with students, young people, and can
do that and make history exciting to them. You
ought to hire that person, and then somebody ought
to ask, can that person coach? And that's not being
done enough. In fact, in some schools, They hire
the head coach, and then he hires his assistants.
And then somebody says, well, what can we get him?
What can we have him teach? Well, that's totally
wrong. That needs to be corrected. Now, those
three areas of imbalance in the financing of
athletics and the pull-out problem and the
influence on the quality of the faculty haven't
been discussed at all. It's all no pass, no play
that's being discussed. Those other three areas,
in my estimation, are just as critical as that
issue, more critical than
that issue. Why did Scope make no pass, no play part
of House Bill 73? Primarily because of the looking
for simple solutions to complex problems. The
whole idea that threat can be a motivation to get
people to do something well that they aren't doing
well by taking away from them something that
they're doing a good job at. And that, to me, is an
example of a simple solution to a complex problem
that doesn't work. For some kids, it will work for a
short period of time to threaten them. But in the
long run, it doesn't work. The only way you can get
students to do well in the academic courses is by
setting up a specific educational plan to help
them, to set up tutorial programs to give them that
extra help they need, and to make the classroom
experience exciting for them. When you do that,
the key to doing that is to having high quality
teachers. Instead of trying to use these
mechanical mechanisms to threaten people, you
really need creative teachers. You need smaller
classes, better curriculum materials. You need
the opportunity, the flexibility of the teacher
to help students work at the level they're at and
have them feel good about themselves and use
success at the next level of their stage of
intellectual development. and challenge them
there instead of giving them some task that they
can't do and they feel like a failure. The key to
teaching is being able to differentiate
instruction based on where that student is at the
moment. And not to give them an assignment that's
so difficult it blows them over. The key is to give
them an assignment that pushes them to their next
level of understanding. And then they get into the
next level above that by succeeding at that
previous level. But that takes differentiation
and individualization. And that takes schools
where teachers have their time. You can't do that
with 200 kids in English. Each student in English
is at a different stage in their ability to write.
And you have to be working with them at the stage
they're at. Some kids can do college work while
they're in the sixth grade. And they ought to be
allowed to proceed as far as they can. Other kids
may have mild handicaps where they read from right
to left rather than left to right. They can't make
sense out of letters. They have dyslexia or
something, some other problem. So the teacher
needs to use different approaches with those
kids. But a good school helps each student move as
far as they can in terms of what they're able to do
and still get them to feel good about themselves,
not feel like a failure for life. And that's what
I'm worried about with these strict models where
everybody has to fit into the mold, and if they
don't, they don't make it. They're kicked out. And
five years from now, we may end up with the test
averages going up, but when we take a look at it, we
may find that the 20% of the kids who needed our help
most are no longer in school. There'll be more
people passing the test, but the other kids will
have dropped out. And if that happens, we
shouldn't call it reform. And I don't think that's
what the governor or the select committee or any
other people had in mind. They did this with the
best intentions. But it could happen if we don't
take a close look at it. In regard to the appraisal
teams, do you think the one evaluator who must be
from where the teacher is employed should be an
administrator? and why? No, I think they should
separate the administrator from the process of
doing the evaluation. I think they should do like
they're doing in Tennessee, bringing in people
from the outside, the outside evaluators, who are
specialists in the teaching field and as the
teachers teach. This principal goes in there and
he's not trained in physics to do an evaluation of
the physics teacher or chemistry or science or
foreign language. You need people who are trained
in the subject areas and also trained to use the
performance appraisal instruments. And then you
also want a situation where you separate the
evaluation from the person who's going to have to
make that decision and help that person over the
rough spots. You really need, in a school, people
doing evaluations for merit and salary increases
and promotions separate from evaluation from
instruction improvement. The people who are
working with people on instruction improvement,
if the principal's going to be an instruction
leader, the teacher has to be able to go to that
principal without any fear at all or threat and
tell all the bad things about themselves, things
they don't know what to do. As a beginning teacher,
for instance, you want to go in and say to the
principal, boy, I'm having trouble with this.
It's very hard to say that if that same person is
going to turn around and have to evaluate you for
merit. So you need these two systems of evaluation
operating, one for instructional improvement
and another for making judgments relating to
personnel practices, such as salary increases
and promotions. And those have to be separated.
Are you for or against? The same person can't do
both. It's a conflict of roles.
Are you for or against the appointed or elected
state board of education? I would like to see an
elected state board with much more involvement of
the local community in that process.
But I worry about putting all this power and a few
people who are appointed, and the political
patronage that goes with these appointments to
these boards. Now, first time around, everybody
agreed that this particular governor would bend
over backwards to make sure there was no political
basis for doing the appointment. But there was an
appointed board in Texas at one time, and they did
away with it during the Elmore Aiken study. And the
reason they went away with it because it became a
political patronage appointment process where,
over time, the politicians used these
appointments as a political activity. And I
believe that the more you take these kinds of roles
out of the local community, the less investment
and sense of ownership the local area has in the
whole business of education. And I think that
electing their officials to make these decisions
is one of many of the things we ought to put back with
the local board. I believe we ought to have a
bottom-up approach for educational change with
the individual school as the focus for
improvement, not a top-down approach where you
get a few people who are chosen because someone
says we can't have any faith in these local boards,
they're all controlled by the booster squad, and
they'll be putting too much emphasis on
athletics. Well, the key to that is to emphasize
that the local board has to take the
responsibility for quality, not to say let's take
over that role. Because ultimately, a school is
only as good as that local community wants to make
it. You can't mandate quality for 1,089 school
districts, 240,000 teachers, and 3.2 million
children from the state and treat every school
district as if they were one district. And because
the districts vary from one end of the state to the
other in terms of size, in terms of makeup, You've
got the urban areas. You've got the small West
Texas towns. But the key that you want is a
commitment, regardless of the size of that
district, of the local people in their schools to
take the responsibility to make it good. Not a few
people in
Austin. OK. If a student fails an academic course
during the last six weeks of the academic school
year, Will that student be barred from
participating in extracurricular activities
like football during the first six weeks of the
following academic school year? I don't know how
they rule it on that. We'll have to wait and see
how that turns out. Do you feel that scope was
adequately represented with educators? No, I
don't. That was the only question. education on
the committee. There were no teachers, there were
no principals, there were no superintendents.
The committee would have been a much different
committee if it had teachers on it. There would
have been a much more sensitivity and greater
feeling as to what the life of a teacher is like. One
of the issues that are raised by teachers when they
try to differentiate programs based on the wide
differentiation in where students are in terms of
what they're trying to teach, in terms of reading
groups, levels of reading in any given class, the
diversity that you find within any given class,
and how you have to go about designing specific
teaching strategies to meet the needs of those
different learners. The committee really tried
to get a sense of the pieces by listening to a lot of
them coming into the meeting. And also, in the
testimony, all the professional groups had a
chance to come before the committee. And Perot,
Mr. Perot, really did a good job, I think, in hiring
Sorolla to get this information on this survey.
But we did not have this constant input and
confrontation in the subcommittee. that was very
essential, would be very essential to have with
teachers in an ongoing way. And I think the
credibility of the committee would have been
strengthened by having people fund education,
more people for education on the committee
itself. Do you think House Bill 72 made the
teaching profession a rewarding one to attract
good teachers and retain good teachers? Some
aspects of it can do that if they're properly
implemented. The highest salary was essential.
The scholar loan programs that were developed and
that have been implemented, but there's not
enough money there. Really, we're talking about a
million dollars for pre-service students. I
forgot the exact amount of money for career
teachers who want to shift from the teaching field
they're in now to the high priority area, the
shortage area. But they didn't fund some aspects
of the research and development to try to provide
funds where industry and the schools and colleges
could come together to develop model programs,
innovative programs that would go beyond the
minimum standard. We need to do a lot more with
providing tutors to back up the teachers when they
make recommendations that students need
tutoring. For the first time in the history,
there's a lunch program now where the teacher's
supposed to have free lunch duty of at least a half
hour, but in some school districts, they're not
giving them this. They still have to eat with the
kids. The conditions in the workplace, the
smaller classes would have made a great deal of
difference, but those are the first things that
the districts are asking for waivers on because
they say they don't have the teachers or the space
to provide the smaller classes. A lot's going to
happen, and a lot's going to depend on what
happens, for instance, with things like the
career ladder, too. That could be a terrific
program if we can get in shape what the career level
three and four requirements are going to be in
terms of role definitions and increased
incentives for becoming a trainer of beginning
teachers and things like this. But all that has yet
to be worked out. See, the salary is only one thing
that creates a profession. It's basically the
knowledge base, what kind of training they have,
and we need to do a lot more about that. Teachers
have to have a lot more autonomy in terms of the
governance structure. We have to rely on teachers
themselves to set the standards and monitor them.
Actually, this bill took away from the Commission
on Professional Standards much of its authority
because the school state board itself now can give
approval for local districts to set up
alternative certification programs and bypass
the commission of professional standards
completely. So that was a step backward for the
profession. The conditions in the workplace may
be more important in many respects than the
salary. If these essential elements
requirements, which are requiring much more
paperwork, The more the paper shuffling gets
foisted on the teachers, we're going to drive a lot
of them out of teaching. If you hand a teacher a
syllabus and say, make sure everybody in this
class is on page such and such on October 13th, and
we're going to judge how good you are by giving them
all a test, it changes the whole nature of teaching
from a very creative process in which that teacher
who loves their subject teaches it in the most
creative ways possible. and then gets the
students turned on instead of trying to do this
workbook thing with these essential elements and
then fill out the form. And a lot's going to happen
in terms of the way the state loosens up and gets
back to providing some of these teachers to trust
them and have faith in them and give them some
autonomy to teach these basic skills programs and
beyond in creative ways. They'll take good
leadership. I would like to see the state move
toward a system where the better a school became,
the more autonomy it would have, and reward them
for being good by letting them develop innovative
ways to do things, and not treat every school as if
it was the same. Those schools which aren't doing a
good job should be declared bankrupt, and the
state should go in and do everything they can We're
those, but not to put all of these minimum
regulations on all of these really good school
districts. Those good school districts ought to
be rewarded by saying, do better. Think of
creative things on your own that you can do to go
beyond where you are, and the state then ought to
provide incentives to help you do that.
That's what will keep good teachers in teaching.
If they have a chance to be creative and innovative
and then get rewarded But the hard work it's going
to take to go beyond the minimums.
OK. What are the bad parts of Haskell 72? Well, I
think the overemphasis on testing as an indicator
of excellence. There are many more ways to define
excellence than just test scores. You know, I
think that the...
aspects of the bill with the over-emphasis on
threat as the primary means for motivation, the
whole business of the no more than five days
absent. Here, kids, you see, those kinds of
things, the regulations, when you try to
implement those, having been a principal of a
school and a teacher, I know that you need the
flexibility in a school. The assumption is if you
don't have those rules, kids will you know, not,
they'll abuse them. Well, there are other ways to
get kids to go to school other than having those
rules. You may have a situation, for instance,
where you have a migrant farm worker student who,
in order to keep the family going, has to work
during certain times of the year. We used to be the
kids where any day you could get that child in
school, you were happy to get them there. You
wanted to get them there. And now that kid misses
five days of school, and he might as well stay out of
school for the whole semester, because even if he
comes back, which he's not going to when you sit
there and not get any credit for it, he misses the
five days, he loses the whole semester, which is
absurd. What you want to do is set up a system where
you get him in school as many days as you possibly
can working. That's going to be a system where
after five days, after they miss five days,
they'll give up. It's just like having this six
weeks as a suspension time for people who don't get
past these minimum grades. This doesn't make any
sense. Why six weeks? Why can't you make it on a
system of week by week? And working with a student
to progress and helping them succeed. Not use it as
punishment. Use it as a means of motivation and
incentive But somebody's got to work with the
student. It doesn't do any good to just say you
can't participate for six weeks. Somebody ought
to be working with that student before they get to
the situation where they don't pass. And then if
they don't pass, somebody ought to be working with
them right off. And there ought to be some
incentives, some goal set. And then if the student
meets those goals, then you Move ahead and help you
feel like a success if you don't do things in terms
of six-week chunks. People who are 15 and 16 don't
live their lives that way. They don't think of
those things. We're going to lose a lot of kids from
school. The thing I'm hoping that somebody does is
hold each of these school districts to the
requirement in the legislation that they do.